About five or six hours, I mean, five or six cents an hour.
Wasn't very much.
But we did get our eats, and that was, they would let us eat nearly anything except steaks or anything like that.
Was the food over there as good as it was in Cebisa?
Well, they had their own plates.
For instance,
They would have a meat and two vegetables and a drink and a slice of bread.
And best that I can remember, they were all about forty to forty-five cents.
And they had them up there.
of meat and two vegetables.
Number two, it had something else without meat and something else, you know.
Had three specialties most of the time.
And that's what we did.
Normally, who stayed at the Aggieland Inn?
Who were the people that were there?
Well, just somebody.
Army people back when I was there, mostly.
Okay.
And football weekends, that's where I met one of their great, great, great supporters of football.
Name was Pfaff, P-F-A-F-F.
And he and Norton got together in 1934.
And I met him in the fall of 35.
Describe Coach Norton, personality.
Well, I didn't know him much until after I graduated.
But they didn't have any trouble filling those
30 rooms, you know, during a football weekend or anything special, Mother's Day or whatever they had.
During those three years you worked there, do you remember any celebrities spending the night at the Aggieland Inn?
Any famous people?
In 1937, Roosevelt came here.
In spring of 37,
got in his car and had his celebrities running by the side of the car.
And he drove down through the military.
Military wall.
They had a drill for him.
And I can remember
right across the street, because I was watching out the window.
And old Ed Lee, which was commanding officer of the students at that time, he rode in that open car with him.
And that lasted a couple of hours, and then he left.
But that was the biggest thing.
Did he, he didn't stay at the Aggieland, though?
No, no, no.
Were you and your buddies aware that President Roosevelt was crippled?
Oh, yes, they told us, yeah.
But you didn't see him in a wheelchair or anything?
No, no, he was in his car.
I never saw him get out of his car.
They came, had a special train, you know, that he drove in, or rode in.
And, uh,
It was quite an event to see the President of the United States on A&M campus.
Were there any other famous celebrities that came during those years?
Well, I'm sure there were some... Well, that's all we had then was military people.
All right, back to your being a student.
What outfit were you in?
I was in...
engineer my freshman year, and B Battery Field Artillery the next three years.
Describe that outfit and what it was like.
Well, they had, at that time, they had so many different
They was divided up my second year, I believe, and second year they divided a few artillery up because there was more than that, except infantry.
Everybody wanted to get in the infancy, you know.
And so anyway, they had every Wednesday, we had a drill.
We'd get out there and ride those old caissons and pieces and on a lot of the land that the wife's father worked, they called it Scotes Field up there, about where our motel was.
up there and next to the highway you're saying uh north of the campus on the west side of texas avenue next to the highway on highway six when i got here in 34 highway six wasn't here on that side of the campus it was on on the west and the south side and and uh
They were working on it, but it wasn't quite completed down when the old Highway 6 went through Welburn and met just before they got to the Navisota River down there.
Describe the campus when you arrived.
What were the main, what were the big important buildings?
Well.
We had, we called it the old main building, you know, with the big dome.
Academic.
And a lot of those buildings are still there.
The chemistry building has been increased.
The petroleum engineering building was being a new building and the one that
I don't know what they call us building now, where you go, turn in off of Highway 6, go up to the main building.
What we used to call the system building.
System building.
Was it there?
Yeah, it was there.
It was new.
Her father that had built the Ag Engineering Building was a new building.
All right, out there where the golf course is now, was that still a part of?
Well, that was where they kept the cattle.
That was still the cow pasture?
The cow pasture.
And the horse pasture?
And the horse pasture.
And where she lived, right across the street there, was where the pigs and the cows and where the
The modern fire was built the last couple, three years.
That was Dr. Marstella's veterinary sick cattle or horses or something.
That's where they stayed.
Now, back to your outfit.
What was the nickname of your artillery outfit?
Did you all have a nickname, your corps outfit?
Not that I know of.
Did you make some friendships in that outfit that lasted?
Yeah, and they're mostly gone, too.
I lost one with the little Higginbotham just last year.
And my best man at my wedding, Oscar Long, he passed away about two or three months ago.
John Bone, George Birch, and those Wichita Falls boys were
All Gone, Tom Murrow is gone, and he was a—I had more friends, I believe, in that band, and that was the most of all of the people that I really was real close to.
Well, hell, I worked a little time.
You know, six days when you got a little time.
I can remember one day I had, in fact, I saw in the paper the other day where he passed away up in Stevenville.
Joe Davis, Colonel Joe Davis passed away.
I don't know whether you ever remember him or not.
Then it wasn't, he just passed away the last month or two.
He saw me one day, I was running across, at noon the band always played as you marked, they marked in the, and I was running across there, I was running a little late, and I had my whole uniform on.
And he hollered at me, and he goes, hey, Ed, come over here.
And I went over and ran over and stopped and saluted him.
He said, what can I do for you?
He said, I just wanted to see what you look like in a uniform.
You know, when you're working six hours a day,
That's about the only time they ever get to see you.
You got an old white jacket on.
But anyway, that was... In your outfit, what did y'all take pride in?
What was important about your outfit?
Well, as far as I know... Chick Sale was in mind.
Mm-hmm.
And...
I don't know of anything special.
There were a lot of different groups of boys from different areas.
And most of the boys, I believe in my area, in my outfit, was Houston.
From Houston?
Were they rich, poor?
Well, the ones that I knew weren't, some had a lot more money.
And you didn't, you know, when, you don't, that didn't ever seem to bother.
Let's see, when you and your buddies, did you all ever pull any pranks, any jokes, any aggie good bull?
No, I didn't.
I just never did.
I was either going to school or I was working.
And I had to work.
That money that you had saved and then you're working, about how much did a year of here cost?
Do you remember?
I believe it was a year
I believe your meals were, I believe, about thirty dollars a month.
And it seemed like laundry was ten dollars.
That's about as close as I can remember, the laundry and the eats.
So that your working in the dining hall paid only about half?
Well, it paid $30 in Cebiza.
Oh, so it pretty well paid your way.
But when I went to work over there, I got my eats and $15 a month.
And after my junior year,
I got a deal that, uh, I got, uh, it was a death blotter.
And, uh, and the man down at, uh, at Athletic Halvis had charge of all those payrolls then.
He ate up for lunch every day, and one day I asked him, he had somebody that had it a year or two before.
And I asked him if I could, he would let me have the chance of selling those blotters.
But it was a blotter about eighteen by twenty-four.
And it was a, what I did, I put, I made me a big T on the inside.
Divided it up into little different advertising sections.
And the ones that were in the T, they would be two or three dollars higher.
Then on each side I had the football and the basketball schedule.
I had that for two years.
And I'd sell them for ten cents a blotter.
It was just a regular blotter.
And a nice one.
And some of them wanted to sell them, go around to the different rooms and sell them.
I'd let them have nickel and I'd keep a nickel.
And I just did different things.
One time, one of my good friends that was with me at the mess hall, I mean over at the
at the Aggieland Inn was named Igo, Harry Igo.
In fact, he was just down here not long ago, gave $50,000 for one of the pillows, and he's pretty well lost.
He and I were roommates during the summertime.
He was in the infantry in the fall.
In fact, I'm surprised that
He generally calls me about once a week.
But anyway, we had an old boy that had bought a wagon load of watermelons.
This was in the summertime.
And we bought them from him for ten cents a piece.
We must have had fifty, seventy-five watermelons.
And we put them up there in Hart Hall.
You had a commode and a shower between two rooms.
And we called it shower-cooled watermelons.
We'd sell them for a quarter.
Joe Davis called us in one day, said, have you all been selling these watermelons?
Yes, sir.
Well, you got to stop now because they're just leaving them out on the ground.
And that little lady right out there,
When we had a blind date or a date after a while, the first one was a blind date, but after that one, she knew she was going to get to eat a watermelon.
But that's one of the ways that I'd sell during the football season, I'd sell seats.
There was a, then it, the,
athletic department owned those seats, owned metal seats and had a cushion in them and fit under them.
I'd sell those and made a dime every seat.
But when I graduated from here, there wasn't a head of the department
or any of those instructors over there that when I walked up into their room, they invited me in.
There wasn't one of them that didn't know my name.
Because they had eaten there at Aggieland M for three years, you know.
And I'd waited on them.
I really had a lot, lots of good.
In fact, Dr. Walton,
and Schleserman, and, and Dean Kyle, we've all gone duck and dove hunting together, so.
Describe those, describe those people.
Describe Dr. Walton and what was he like?
Well, I was always impressed with him, but we used to hunt along the old Little Brazos River before it went into the big lot.
There used to be a lot of, well, in fact, I guess there's still a lot of farming out there, but there's a lot of doves out there.
Dr. Dan Russell.
Oh, I could just.
Let's see, you mentioned Skipper Schleselman.
You remember, you know, remember Skipper?
Describe him, please.
Oh, I thought he was one of the, he was great.
My senior year, after I met her, my junior year, in the summer of my junior year,
And the second half of my senior year, I wasn't doing very good because I was spending too much time down there.
And so she was her daddy's secretary, and he was in charge of those boys that weren't doing very good.
So I got a letter from him.
She had written and said I wanted to meet him in his office after 7.30, after I got off work.
And he said, I'll tell you one thing.
If you don't start doing better, you ain't coming down.
He said, you ain't coming down to the house anymore.
So I got with her, and she and I worked.
So you couldn't have a date with his daughter unless you improved your grade.
That's right.
That's what he told me.
And it was a long way from here to Milner Hall.
Because that road out there, it was an old gravel road.
And there weren't any lights on the campus much.
But anyway, but you get Skipper, he was, Dan Russell was, you just couldn't ask for anything.
Describe him, please.
He was, he was a good one.
And.
Did you take a course from him?
Took a course from him.
What was it?
Rural sociology?
It was a rural sociology, but I don't remember the number of it.
I've heard stories that it was easy to pass his course.
Yes, sir.
It was.
He had another fellow in his name, Dan Davis.
I took a course, old Harry Igo and I took a course under him right after one o'clock class.
And then there weren't any, any air conditioner or any, you see, pull up all the windows as high as they get.
And after he read everybody's name off and they answered, well, he'd start writing something on them.
Old Harry and I would leave.
in the Animal Hudson River 107, Dahlberg.
I don't mind, I bet he wasn't here when he was here.
I met lots and lots of good people.
And did, when y'all would slip out like that, would he catch you sometimes?
No, he finally did, right at the end.
Dahlberg was, but Dan Davis never did.
That first fall, describe what it was like to go to your first Aggie football games.
Well, I didn't go.
I sold the, because I didn't have any money to go.
And I think then there were two or two and a half for a football game.
That's about all they were.
I'd sell those seats.
So you worked at the games?
Yeah, I worked at the games.
Did you start that your freshman year?
Started my sophomore year.
I found out who you get to sell them for.
Right, your freshman year, you went to the games?
No, I didn't go to the games, but there was upperclassmen
They didn't have very good football.
I think one of the games that year, they played A&I, if I'm not mistaken, and they tied them that year.
It was bad, bad.
Did the sophomores get on to you for not going to the games?
They'd make you guess at every game.
And every point you missed, while you had to,
I lived in Mitchell and the hall was all the way around on the inside.
You had to walk all the way around it.
Duck walk?
Oh, terrible.
It sure did.
All right.
What about bonfire when you were a freshman?
Describe bonfire in those days.
Well, you just picked up anything you could.
Most of it was either those old railroad ties that they had pulled out and put new ones in, you'd get some of those.
And back there then, most of your packages and stuff came in wooden crates, and we used that.
And I'll never forget.
One, and I don't know which year it was, but Railway Express had these wagons that had metal wheels on them.
And we got one of them and pulled it up University Drive.
Then it wasn't, I don't know, more likely, it was just an old dirt road.
And crossed the highway now.
there was an old house over in the cotton field and we went over there and pushed that thing up there and loaded it up and got nearly into the back one of the rooms and there was a colored man back there and he'd been sleeping in that house.
And Dr. Walton found out about it and he made everybody
on the campus put in a nickel in favor of that old house.
I'll never forget that.
Now how long in gathering up the stuff for the bonfire, how long did y'all work on it?
I don't know.
Two or three days?
I don't know how long it is because
5, 5, 5.30.
I was working every day.
And the bonfire was held on the drill field?
On the old drill field.
Always was there every year that I can remember.
Did anybody during your days try to sabotage the bonfire?
They had an airplane come over one night and try to douse it with some gasoline, but it
and didn't do a very good job.
That's the only time I can ever remember.
I remember one time with an A&M boy, and that was after I got out of school, and I was married then, and it was over there.
Even the MSC was built, and he was just going to die, vomit, and take off, and engines,
Let's see, do you remember going to Silver Taps the first time?
What was Silver Taps like then?
Well, I'm assuming, I haven't been to one in many, many, many years, but I'm assuming it's a whole lot like it was then.
Then they'd get up on the old main building there and everybody would
Turn off all of their lights.
But I don't know about it now.
Did you all take it seriously?
Sure did.
And that first fall, did you go home at all?
I went home Christmas.
How'd you get there?
Well, I was going with a girl that she was going to T.S.
I don't know what, it was CIA the first year.
up there.
She was going, and that's where she went after her first year here.
She went one year here in 33 one whole year, she and her sister.
There were 11 of them.
And that was the year that the state had lowered the teacher's salaries 25 percent.
And then the Texas was broke.
And they had served them warrants.
But anyway, I went that year and then I never went back.
Anymore than anymore.
But did you go home at Christmas on the train?
No, they met me and the girl and her mother picked me up in Dallas.
I highwayed it up to Dallas.
They picked me up in Dallas.
And then the boy from Chillicothe, Raymond Igbosom, we'd get together and we'd highway back from
Vernon together.
All right, describe hitchhiking in those days.
Oh, it wasn't too good.
But if you don't, be sure you wore your uniform.
And how long would it take to get from Vernon down?
I just don't have any idea.
I can remember one time that I got to Forrest Denton with one of these friends that was going to North Texas.
I stayed all night with him.